Usage management - Advanced tab information added (#4641)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/manage/manage-subscription/usage-management.md

1. [**Classic UI**](/docs/get-started/sumo-logic-ui-classic). In the main Sumo Logic menu, select **Administration > Account > Usage Management**. <br/> [**New UI**](/docs/get-started/sumo-logic-ui/). In the top menu, select **Administration**, and then under **Account**, select **Usage Management**. You can also click the **Go To...** menu at the top of the screen and select **Usage Management**.
1. Navigate to **Advanced** tab and click on **+ Create Scan Budget**. <br/><img src={useBaseUrl('/img/manage/account/usage-management-advanced.png')} alt="usage-management" style={{border:'1px solid gray'}} width="800"/>
1. **Scope**. Include or exclude the users and roles for whom the scan budget should apply.
1. **Capacity**. Enter the GB value based on your needs. Sumo Logic recommends a GB value per query as per the 95th percentile to be within the safe limits. You can also check the query size of the last 10 queries by clicking on **Click here** to help you determine the appropriate size limit.
1. **Action**. Select the type of action/response you require when the budget limit is reached.
    - **Show Warning to the user**. Query result will be displayed with a the error message.

>     - **Only allow background query scans**. A warning message will be displayed if you run a query that exceeds the budget set, which will block the foreground searches, such as querying in search UI, dashboards, and copilots, but will not impact any background searches, such as scheduled search, monitors, SLO, and API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Only allow background query scans**. A warning message will be displayed if you run a query that exceeds the budget set, which will block the foreground searches, such as querying in the search UI and dashboards, but will not impact any background searches, such as scheduled search, monitors, SLO, and API.
```

1. **Details**. Enter the name for the scan budget.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('/img/manage/account/create-scan-budget.png')} alt="create-scan-budget" style={{border:'1px solid gray'}} width="650"/>
1. Click **Save** to create the scan budget.

:::note
It may take up to 5 minutes for a newly created budget to become active and enforceable in the system.
:::

> ### View details about a Scan Budgets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### View details about a Scan Budget
```

  - **Edit**. Click the **Edit** button to open the pane for editing. Edit the required fields and click on **Save**.
    :::note
    You can only edit the **Capacity** for *Org-wide Query Budget* set using Basic.
    :::
  - **Deactivate/Activate**. Click the **Deactivate/Activate** button to deactivate/activate the selected scan budget.
  - **Delete**. Click the **Delete** button to delete the selected scan budget.
  - **View violations**. Sumo Logic recommends a GB value per query as per the 95th percentile to be within the safe limits. You can also check the query size of the last 10 queries by clicking on **Click here** to help you determine the appropriate size limit.
  - **Budget Type**. Defines the type of budget set: **Per Query Budget** or **Time-Based Budgets**(TBA).
    - **Per Query Budget**. Limits the data (in GBs) that a single query can consume.
    - **Time-Based Budgets**(TBA). Limits the data or credits consumed over a day, week, or month.
  - **Status**. Describes if the scan budget is active or inactive.

>   - **Usage Category**. Describes the type of scan. For Flex this is shown as Flex scan and for Data tier this is shown as Infrequent scan.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **Usage Category**. Describes the type of scan. For Flex this is shown as **Flex Scan** and for Data tier this is shown as **Infrequent Scan**.
```

---
id: usage-management
title: Usage Management
description: Learn to set query level budget to define spending limits for queries. 
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

This page provides information about the Scan Budgets, which allows you to define spending limits for queries to prevent unexpected charges. This will help you manage Sumo Logic credits, especially in pay-per-use scenarios, by setting budgets on scan data volume. 

Sumo Logic provides two modes with which you can set the query limits:
- Basic
- Advanced

## Basic

### Availability

| Account Type | Account Level |
|:--------------|:--------------------------------------|

> | Credits | Free, Trail, Essentials(Flex), Enterprise Operations (Flex), Enterprise Security (flex), Enterprise Suite |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Credits | Free, Trial, Essentials (Flex), Enterprise Operations (Flex), Enterprise Security (Flex), Enterprise Suite |
```

### Set query size limit

> To manage the query size limit using **Basic** configuration:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To manage the query size limit using the **Basic** configuration:
```

1. [**Classic UI**](/docs/get-started/sumo-logic-ui-classic). In the main Sumo Logic menu, select **Administration > Account > Usage Management**. <br/> [**New UI**](/docs/get-started/sumo-logic-ui/). In the top menu, select **Administration**, and then under **Account**, select **Usage Management**. You can also click the **Go To...** menu at the top of the screen and select **Usage Management**. <br/><img src={useBaseUrl('/img/manage/account/usage-management.png')} alt="usage-management" style={{border:'1px solid gray'}} width="650"/>

> 1. **Enable Query Limit**. Select this checkbox and enter the GB value based on your needs. Sumo Logic recommends a GB value per query as per the 95th percentile to be within the safe limits. You can also check the query size of the last 10 queries by clicking on **Click here** to help you determine the appropriate size limit. If you leave this checkbox unchecked, no limits will be added to the query.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. **Enable Query Limit**. Select this checkbox and enter the GB value based on your needs. Sumo Logic recommends setting a GB value per query based on the 95th percentile to stay within safe limits. You can also check the query size of the last 10 queries by clicking on **Click here** to help you determine the appropriate size limit. If you leave this checkbox unchecked, no limits will be added to the query.
```

1. Click **Save Limit**.

:::note
It may take up to 5 minutes for a newly created budget to become active and enforceable in the system.
:::

## Advanced

The **Advanced** method for setting the query size limit allows you to set the limit for individual users and helps admins to specify roles for easier group selection. This method also provides flexibility in your actions when the budget limit is reached.

### Availability

| Account Type | Account Level |
|:--------------|:--------------------------------------|

> | Credits | Essentials(Flex) and Enterprise Suite |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Credits | Essentials (Flex) and Enterprise Suite |
```

### Set query size limit

> To create the query size limit using **Advanced** configuration:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create the query size limit using the **Advanced** configuration:
```

1. [**Classic UI**](/docs/get-started/sumo-logic-ui-classic). In the main Sumo Logic menu, select **Administration > Account > Usage Management**. <br/> [**New UI**](/docs/get-started/sumo-logic-ui/). In the top menu, select **Administration**, and then under **Account**, select **Usage Management**. You can also click the **Go To...** menu at the top of the screen and select **Usage Management**.
1. Navigate to **Advanced** tab and click on **+ Create Scan Budget**. <br/><img src={useBaseUrl('/img/manage/account/usage-management-advanced.png')} alt="usage-management" style={{border:'1px solid gray'}} width="800"/>
1. **Scope**. Include or exclude the users and roles for whom the scan budget should apply.

> 1. **Capacity**. Enter the GB value based on your needs. Sumo Logic recommends a GB value per query as per the 95th percentile to be within the safe limits. You can also check the query size of the last 10 queries by clicking on **Click here** to help you determine the appropriate size limit.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. **Capacity**. Enter the GB value based on your needs. Sumo Logic recommends setting a GB value per query based on the 95th percentile to stay within safe limits. You can also check the query size of the last 10 queries by clicking on **Click here** to help you determine the appropriate size limit.
```
